Epste and Trump were close. Sorry,
Donald. Just a fact. And when Elon Musk
tweets Trump's on the list and a few
days later, there is no list. It begs
questions. So, they dangled this in
order to get votes. And they lie to
people. And we're only 6 months in. And
the vandalization that he's done pushing
the boundaries on the rule of law. This
is darkness.
>> Really? Because I hear this every
election cycle.
>> No, it's a dangerous game. And America
is struggling and I really worry about
our democracy. But Trump is likely to
lose power unless they can rig the game.
>> Governor Gavin Newsome. Are you going to
try and become the next president of the
United States?
>> Governor of California.
>> Gavin Newsome.
>> Who is the real Gavin Newsome?
>> I think most people see me as sort of,
you know, slick guy. Grew up with a
trust fund, but I didn't come from any
wealth. Like my mom was a single mom.
She was working two, three jobs. She ran
out of her own bedroom. Sacrificed
everything for two kids. And I was going
nowhere academically, but she never gave
up on me.
>> And as your sort of political career
starts to accelerate, she was diagnosed
with breast cancer.
>> Yeah. And she was in so much pain,
suffering. She's going to do an assisted
suicide.
And uh I was holding her hand. She's and
her last breath. But look, everything
that finds the best of me, grit, hard
work is reflected in her. And that led
to me sitting here with you as governor
of California in politics.
>> He's an incompetent governor. Look at
the job he's doing. He's a stone cold
liar.
>> There's always conflict between you and
Trump.
>> I think he enjoys sparring with me. I
know he thrives on it, but I'd be lying
if I didn't say it. Every time I have a
conversation, it's unbelievably cordial.
He says, "You need anything, call me."
Including the night before he quote
unquote federalized the National Guard,
but then calls me new.
>> He wants to take me out.
>> Do you think he's going to try and stay
in power? So, I don't think I'm
exaggerating, but when people close to
Donald Trump send the governor of
California, "Hey,
they're not around."
I see messages all the time in the
comment section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because in a strange
way you are you're part of our history
and you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank
you
Governor Gavin Newsome.
Can you quite believe your life?
You're you're running one of the most
consequential states in America,
arguably the most consequential state in
America, but also I I read that it's the
fourth highest GDP in the world now.
>> In the world,
it's always in the headlines. There's
always conflict between you and Trump. I
just wanted to start with this question,
like, can you believe your life?
>> If you talk to my 10-year-old self, this
is impossible. Could have even dreamt
it. I don't know if it was a dream or a
nightmare at 10.
>> I mean, I'm not sure this is what I
wanted at 10. I'm not sure I wanted this
at 20 or even 30. And I know you're
going to continue to shoulder roll what
I'm going to say, but many of the book
makers, the odds have you as being the
next president of the United States in
2028.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm going to throw that. I know you're
going to shoulder roll it and tell me
California.
>> Well, that's surreal. I mean, that's
ridic I mean, that's something that even
in those higher moments, not low
moments, where I may have had a little
bit more confidence, million years would
never have imagined that I would be at
this moment. And yeah, that's that
creates a lot of humility of a lot of
grace around that. I mean, the idea that
that's you're even in the conversation.
I know that sounds wrote and cliched,
little humble brag.
>> The fact that I'm in the conversation
>> is extraordinary. Is it a reality? I
don't know. I mean, that's that's fate
will determine.
>> I I I totally understand that. But I but
I want to just get clear on one thing
which is you would be honored to play
the role as president of the United
States if and when that opportunity
called or presented itself.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean I I don't know about
playing the role, but if it if it, you
know, if the moment meets you and you
meet the moment, if you can express with
congruency the why and you can do it
without the pretense and the you could
do it with authenticity and you truly
believe that you add value
>> against others that may be lined up.
>> Um, yeah, but you know, I won't go
through the motion. I don't need to be
something to do something. Yeah. For me,
it's it's it's a it's you've got to I
mean, I got to feel it. It's got to be
in my my core, my soul. It's got to be a
burning need and desire to be
accountable and to to reflect the moment
and reflect the aspirations and the
dreams of of millions and millions of
people and and to have enough confidence
uh that you feel you can deliver in that
respect.
>> Do you think you could deliver in that
respect?
>> I I you know, increasingly, which is
strange. I wouldn't been I don't know
that I could have said that a few years
ago. I mean that I feel like things for
me have radically changed and we can get
into why. I mean I've gone through
they're they're working on the seventh
recall against me right now. I went
through a recall process. I've been on
the receiving end of a national effort
to you know try to do everything to
undermine what I'm doing and and going
up against Trump and Trumpism and and
the surround sound and these propaganda
networks 247. I'm I'm more resolved now.
I mean in intense way ways I I'm I'm
discovering myself in this process. I'm
in the other side of where I ever
expected to be even a year ago. And uh I
feel deeply accountable and deeply
responsible and deeply motivated. I
don't know where that takes me, but I
know I have a responsibility over the
next 18 months and I'm going to run the
110 yard dash. I'm not going to I'm not
going to run the 90 yard dash on the way
out of here. And so that's that's what I
know. I got a sell by date and I'm going
to put everything on the line. Let's get
into it then in terms of your early
context in your childhood because I
think
>> you have to understand that to
understand the person and the
complexities of the person that I'm sat
in front of today. So can you give me
the specifics of your earliest context?
>> You know it's it you know I think shaped
like so many people watching I mean how
many of us over half of us have similar
experiences of uh you know 19-year-old
who's pregnant uh with her firstborn me
and a few years later she's on her own
with two kids. Uh she came from no
wealth, no real privilege. Her father
committed suicide, was a prisoner of war
coming out of uh World War II. She
struggled with her own identity, her own
confidence. Uh she struggled raising two
kids. Uh my father who left us but not
in disgrace. Uh who was an extraordinary
figure but an elusive figure growing up
and sort of marked so much of my early
childhood as sort of longing trying to
connect. But the the anchor, the rock
was this rockstar single mom and and
everything that defines the best of me
and the worst of me. This notion of
grit, hard work, you got to manifest.
Nothing's going to be handed to you. Um
is reflected in her. At the same time, a
lot of the anxiety and and fear uh sense
of, you know, I mean, sometimes
loneliness. I mean, she was a very
lonely person. Yeah. Tessa passed away
almost two decades ago. And uh I'm I'm
now older than she was when she passed
away. And you know, I just I never fully
appreciated her to the degree I do now
as a father, uh, as a mother struggling
with not only herself, just trying to be
a good mother, trying to have a career,
a life, but also struggling to support
her kids and support a kid, in this case
me, who was struggling in every way,
particularly with pretty severe learning
disabilities, with self-esteem, and um,
and never fully appreciated ated her
sacrifice.
>> Give me the color on the learning
disabilities because someone looks at
you, someone so accomplished in both
business and in politics. And you say
that you had learning difficulties as a
child.
>> I mean, I was I was a guy in the back of
of the class. I was a guy with the head
down. I was a guy, you know, soaking
wet, sweating. I was a guy shaking
underneath, not physically shaking. Um,
desperate not to be called on in the
class. I'm someone who still can't read
a speech. You're in the wrong business.
I think politics. You can't read a
speech. Could do a teleprompter, but
you'll never see me. You haven't seen me
go up and down looking at a speech. I
can't still struggle to read. If I read,
I have to underline everything. I have
to uh organize uh everything through not
only underlining, highlighting, then I
go back and reread what I underlined in
order to understand it. Once I
understand it, boy, I understand it. I
mean, then it's becomes, you know, part
of who I am, which is the other side of
dyslexia. But I, you know, was I was a
guy that was was going nowhere
academically. You know, I was just I was
that kid. And I had a sister that was
the exact opposite. You know, well, I'm
getting my 960 in American SAT. She was
getting 1380. It was easy for her. Uh,
everything was easy for her. And so that
contrast and that anxiety that came from
that contrast and the struggle that my
mom had of trying to sort of work with
me work and you know that was uh that
marked so much of you know my memories
and decades of my life
>> and at that early age sub 10 what did
you think of yourself what was your
self-perception self-image
>> the thing that you know I don't think
I've shared uh is a thing that is most
indelible in my life when my mother in
struggling with me and I'll never forget
it and I recall if I responded to her at
the time, but it's marked half a century
of my life when she said because I
couldn't I was just I was giving up. I
couldn't read this chapter, whatever it
was. She said it's okay to be average
like
and I think about that all the time,
man. I mean, and and I forgive her. I
thank for that. I think cuz she was
struggling with me. But that's a hell of
a thing to say to a kid. And I think she
was just saying it's okay. You don't
have to be your sister. You're not your
dad. You know, you never be that person.
I loved her deeply and I'm here because
of her. But that shapes a lot of the
early that that person that you know and
it's shaped who I've become because I've
done everything in my power to to
overcompensate for the struggle
>> and for that mindset where I could have
easily believed that and I could have
easily become that.
>> In terms of money in the home, what I
sometimes think of when I think about my
own childhood, money was almost this
other person. You know, it's funny. We
talk about attachment styles and we say
some people have like this avoidant
attachment style, this anxious
attachment style, this secure attachment
style. And I think of money in the same
way. It it it's in homes. It's a person.
Sometimes it's distant and never there.
Sometimes it's causing the argument.
>> What was money in your household? Like
what was the relationship that you'd
formed with it? Well, I had interesting
experience with with money because we
didn't come from any wealth. But my
father uh his relationships were
attached to extraordinary wealth,
abundance of wealth. His closest friends
in the world were some of the richest
families in the world. Um and he while
he didn't have himself tremendous amount
of wealth, he led a very wealthy
lifestyle. Meanwhile, my mom and I and
my sister were there uh doing, you know,
our Swanson's um you know, frozen food.
We're doing our craft macaroni and
cheese. We're doing our you know, but
money was always the source of the
stress cuz he didn't have much to give
her. She didn't have much period. So,
she was working two, three jobs. And
when I say two, three jobs, when I say
that, I mean literally two, three jobs.
We had guests always living at the
house. I didn't understand what guests
living at the house mean. She moved out
of her own bedroom to rent out the
bedroom. Um, if you wanted something,
had a paper route, worked for Jeff Hicks
Construction. If you want a basketball
hoop, you're gonna have to work for it.
There was nothing handed, nothing given.
And so, she was grinding. She's working
in part-time waitress. I got in the
restaurant business. I was a bus boy.
There's some moments that changed my
life there that I'll never ever ever
ever forget. And so money was a source
of stress but also some evil in the
context of too much and seen the
abundance with people I knew with trust
funds with the relationship to money
where they lost their motivation. They
lost their purpose, their meaning, their
mission. And so when I started getting a
business, it was never about making
money. It was about making a difference.
It was about building something, a
brand. It was about adding some value.
And that pursuit I think created a
mindset where the businesses actually
really thrived because it wasn't about
the money. It was about something more
important. It was bigger than that. And
and so my relationship to money in that
respect really became a gift, a guide in
terms of my entrepreneurial uh pursuits.
Dyslexia certainly was the greatest gift
in relationship to the entrepreneurial
suits. And that led to this led to me
sitting here with you as governor of
California in politics.
>> And when did you find out you had
dyslexia? cuz I I read that your mother
>> she didn't she didn't tell me and I I
wonder I I think about this cuz I've got
a couple kids that are struggling and
and uh we made the mistake with one of
them to tell him yeah I think you got
and now he uses as a crutch and she
never wanted it as a crutch. She never
told me. She said I found out about I
was home early one day came back from
school and I I don't know why I ended up
in her room and I'm looking she's got a
little desk and there's a file open and
I'm like flicking through files and then
I saw the word dyslexia. I'm like, "The
hell is this?" And I remember she got
home. I said, "Mom, what is this?" And
she goes, "Put that away." I'm like,
"What? What is it?" She goes, "No." I
And we had this conversation. She said,
"I didn't really want to talk to you
about it. You've been struggling with I
said, I know I can't read and you know,
stupid, mom." I said, "No, you're not
stupid. We're working through all that."
And she just didn't want to give create
the stigma. She didn't want me to use it
as a crutch, as an excuse, I think. And
I'm angry back to the sort of you know
dialect in my own brain about good bad
um I appreciated that because it was an
excuse not a victim decisions not
conditions term our fate and future this
notion u that we can shape things that I
don't that I wasn't stigmatized in that
respect so I can make excuses around it
I had to work around it I had to work
through it and I think that was the path
she she chose and and I'm many ways
grateful that she
Were you bullied by other children?
>> Yeah, we had uh Baltimore Street. I told
the president this too.
Speaking of Trump, uh he he we were
talking a few weeks ago and he goes,
"Hey, this new scum thing, you know,
because he calls me new scum, Gavin
Newskum." He goes, "Pretty original,
right?" I said, "It's not, Mr.
President, it's not particularly
original."
And he goes, "What do you mean? What do
you mean?" I said, "Well, there were
there was the bully on Baltimore Street
uh in Cordom Madera, California used to
call me new scum." He goes, "Ah, hey,
well, you know what?" Yeah. I mean, he
was 7, eight or nine. You're 79, Mr.
President. I told him that, too. And he
moved immediately off on another topic.
Uh, yeah. So, we, you know, I was I was
the bold cut guy. The hair, you know,
the Dutch boy look, you know, you
remember I don't know if you remember
the old Dutch boy stuff. U sort of
American iconic American brand. Uh, and
and uh and it was easy to see why I
might have been bullied.
>> I've got a picture here. If you look
>> Oh, look at me back at uh Isn't that
great? So, you get the haircut. You get
the vibe. This is uh this is my father
trying to insert. So, Irish Catholic
family. My dad went to Catholic schools
and so by definition, I went to Catholic
school. My mother who loved the sailor
outfits, kneeh high black socks. Uh
yeah, you're likely to get bullied going
on the bus.
>> It's not the best cut, but we've all
we've all had we've all been on a
journey with our haircuts.
>> It's good when I hear your story and the
context you grew up in with with your
mother, with the bullying, with the
challenges at school, um with the dad
that's away and I know the stats around
young boys that grow up in particular
that don't have a father figure in at
home. That for me that's a perfect
recipe for like small tea, maybe big tea
trauma in some capacity. Later in your
life, you talked about having
challenges with alcohol.
>> Yeah. Oh, yeah. I know.
>> And I wondered if that if that that
picture that's part of the same picture,
which is putting the mask on, various
forms of escapism.
>> Yeah. No, 100%. Well, look, I mean, my
my my grandfather that took his life was
was an alcoholic.
>> Um, and my mother struggled a little bit
and it was more self-medicating for me.
I started discovering that as well. Of
course, look, I got in the wine
business. Yeah.
>> So I need attracted to the business side
of it. Opened a wine store right out of
college. Opened a number of restaurants.
Had seven or eight restaurants. Have
four wineries as I speak today. So wine
became ubiquous in my life. Is also my
connection back to my dad which is a
whole another journey.
>> And you started that business in 1992
which was the year I was born. And as I
as I
>> rubbing it in as I sit here 32 years
later the business still exists. You've
placed it into a trust.
>> It still exists. and uh grew about there
were 22 or four businesses at peak about
a thousand employees at peak came from
that one business I was the only
full-time employee for almost two years
yeah I mean I'll tell you just the
greatest training for politics and life
just opening your own business small
business and uh those were some special
days and went from that to a restaurant
up the block a few years later a hotel a
winery now four wineries uh we had five
or six restaurant uh hotels and nine
restaurants at peak and businesses are
still around.
>> I was reading that you had this sort of
scheme where you gave employees $500
for a magical moment award.
>> Well, it was a failure award.
>> A failure award.
>> And then it became my sister took over
because I I got into politics and uh she
said, "I don't like this failure
framework." I said, "Well, it's the I
love failure. I'm good at it. Dyslexics
are the best at it. I mean, there's
nothing linear about our lives. It's
fail forward fast, miss 100% of shots
you don't take." So you were giving
employees $500 to if they failed.
>> Yeah, I had a great just a a very brief
example. I So I had a little hotel up in
[__] Valley, Lake Tahoe area and a lot
of mosquitoes during the summer months.
It's an old motel built for the Winter
Olympics, the 1960 Winter Olympics,
built in 1959 for the delegates was
supposed to be torn down. It sort of
patched together and we we we held it
together, but it had no air
conditioning. So you'd keep the doors
open, you keep the windows open, but in
the summer the mosquitoes came in, drove
the guests crazy. So, we had this night
clerk, you know, those crazy night
clerks come in and he was getting
complaints all the time about the
mosquitoes. And he on his own decided
one day to go before he went to work,
get in 11:00 at night, and he bought a
bunch of catfish at the store because
there's a bunch of ponds around the
business. And he figured that's where
all the mosquitoes are starting. So, the
catfish will eat the larvae of the of of
of the mosquitoes, and he'd solve the
problem. So, he just on his own decided
to buy a bunch of catfish, dumped them
in the ponds all around the hotel. Well,
about 4 in the morning, this engineer
calls me gruff guy, says the raccoons
had a feeding frenzy and ran through the
hotel because the doors were open with
bunch of, you know, flying fish in their
their mouths and fish everywhere. And
Ludo said, "You got to fire that son of
a [__] This goddamn idiot." And I
started laughing. Went up there the next
morning, met with them, and I said,
"This is a magical. You tried to solve a
goddamn problem." And we created the
failure award and I gave the biggest
screw-up every single month a bonus. And
at the end of the year, we'd put them
all together. January screw-up, February
screw- up, and we'd have the failure of
the a year award. And did that for years
until my sister said, "We'll call it the
magical moment award." But it was about
initi initiative, taking initiative,
taking responsibility, taking ownership,
trying new things, seeing what works,
iteration, entrepreneurial mindset. It's
not linear. It's thinking creatively
outside the box. That's what a dyslexic
by definition has to do. And that's what
I thought a successful business needed
to do. And it literally empowered our
employees loved it because they felt
seen and heard
>> and safe I guess
>> and safe because they was like as long
as they do it with, you know, no one's
jumping off cliffs here. We're not
encouraging, you know, recklessness, but
risk-taking. And it literally allowed
the business not just to survive, but to
start to thrive in ways I couldn't ever
imagine. I I think that's a really
important just such an important lesson
to so many business owners especially in
these changing times where everything's
moving so quickly in AI and technology
that most people are incentivized just
to business as usual you know protect
our position if we're successful or you
know to prolong convention or whatever
that might mean but businesses that
adopt that approach clearly have an edge
in these rapidly changing times.
>> Yeah. No. And and look, I mean it back
to just, you know, I remember there was
a book Tom Peters wrote called The
Pursuit of Wow. I mean, if there was one
book that just just hit me in the core
that sort of expressed everything I
wanted to become, he talked about hire
the smile, train the skill, uh about
finding these superstar leaders and
developing owners with your leadership
team that they, you know, he talked
about, I remember the Ritz Carlton at
the time gave literally cash to the
folks that were cleaning the rooms and
gave them the ability to use the cash as
needed to solve a problem for their
customers.
>> They created ownership with frontline
employees that were undervalued or
devalued. He talked about, I remember,
diversity as a business essential with
all the anti-woke, anti-Dei stuff we're
dealing with in the United States of
America. I mean, from a business
perspective, there's a business
imperative to advance diversity. But it
was it was Peter's decades ago that
really created that mindset for me in
the business. Diversity broadly defined
>> uh in every way, shape, or form. And so
the business became this sort of the
pursuit of wow of awe of surprise of
iteration of of daring energy. So the
core ideology just kept growing in that
space. Restaurants hotels wineries and
audacious adventurous people uh that
wanted to sort of build a brand build
something that was special. It wasn't
about money. It was about pursuit of
meaning and purpose moments.
>> So why did you leave that and do
politics?
>> I know
there was a two things happened. I got a
phone call. I was running the wine
store, closing it up, doing bookkeeping,
accounting, you know, my the warehouse
was in my apartment. Um, one night right
before I'm closing up, this guy runs in
um to the store and very nervous guy and
he's like, "Can can you help me? What's
a good champagne? Just I got to get
cold." He's like, "Thank you." Put it
away. I'm like, "It's good." He goes,
"Can you wrap it?" I said, "Yeah, I got
it wrapped." Says, "Thank you, man."
About 30 minutes later, the guy comes
back. I'm like, "Oh, damn." Like, I
screwed up or something. but he's got
this girl with him and he's knocking on
the door and I open key back up. He
comes in. He goes, "Just want to
introduce you to my fiance." And I said,
"Wow." He goes, "Well, your champagne, I
just asked her to marry down the block
at the Palace of Fine Arts
>> and we love the champagne and I just
want to say thank you. You were so nice
to me."
>> I remember literally sitting there
crying after he left.
>> Like that's everything that this is like
this is this is this is business, man.
>> It's not a transaction. It's
relationships. Talk about moments.
Magic, man. That's that's it. To your
point, I thought, "This is it. This is
my bliss. This is I'm going to keep
doing this forever." And then I got a
damn call from the mayor of San
Francisco.
>> Can I just ask you on that question?
When that guy came in with his fiance,
why was it so meaningful to you? I can
literally still see the emotion in your
face some 20 years later.
>> Because what I did had meaning. It
mattered in a way I never thought. I
thought it was a transaction.
>> Thought I was buying something. and I
was selling something. Wasn't that man?
>> It was it was marking a really important
moment in his life. Business changed
after that. It wasn't business. It was
just it was it was a different
proposition.
>> Then you get a phone call
>> and I get a phone call and uh screwed
everything up. Willie Brown says, "Hey,
you've been you know, you just opened
this store and uh you know, I've been
reading. You were complaining getting
those permits. It was taking too long."
And
>> he's Willie Brown. Willie Brown, the
mayor of San Francisco, former speaker
of the California Assembly, one of the
most dynamic,
>> one of the most extraordinary
politicians in California history, I
would argue American history, and I
don't say that lightly. Some of the
world's great leaders will identify as
Willie Brown as one of the most
transformative political leaders. And uh
so there's a couple articles in the
paper about me bitching about permits
and parking or something. And he calls
me, he goes, "This is Willie Brown." I'm
like, "Oh, Mr. Mayor." He goes, "Hey,
come on down next Wednesday. I'm a put
you on the film commission." I'm like,
"This is amazing. I'm going to be on the
film commission. I'm 20ome years old.
Got a wine store, about to open a
restaurant I was working on, and now
he's put me on the film commission." I
go down to city hall that next
Wednesday. It's a group of 20 or 30
people. He's swearing a bunch of people
on commissions. And he says, "And Gavin
Newsome, you know, opened a a wine store
down the block, blah blah blah." Goes
the new chair of the parking and traffic
commission. I'm like, I thought I was
going on the film commission. Literally
didn't tell me or anyone. I didn't even
know what chair meant. And all of a
sudden, 26,7 years old, I'm now the
president of San Francisco's Parking and
Traffic Commission. He just randomly put
me in that position. Inspiration,
desperation. I know what the hell I was
doing. And that was how my political
career began. Literally that phone call,
that appointment, not to film, but
parking in traffic. And uh that marked a
pretty significant moment in hindsight
in my life.
>> And that was a pivotal moment in your
your trajectory because you were on
course to continue being an entrepreneur
probably for the rest of your life.
>> Yeah.
>> Could have been somebody.
>> Jesus. So give me the whistle stop
between that moment when he places you
in this role to here. I know I know
whistle stop is a tough word to use to
describe that journey but what is the
whistle stop?
>> Well I just I mean I I put my head down.
I I I learned everything I could back to
sort of the humility of not knowing what
you don't know and recognizing, you
know, success leaves clues and you can
learn from everybody. And I started
listening, learning from people,
absorbing. And I applied myself as
parking traffic commissioner. So much
so, nine months later, uh there was a
vacancy on our our board of supervisors,
our city council, and Willie Brown goes,
"You know what? You've been doing a
pretty decent job here, man. I'm gonna
give you a shot." So, I was a relatively
young guy now is the entrepreneur
business person on our city council
board of supervisors and I just hit the
ground running. I opened I by that time
opened a few extra businesses. It was a
part-time job but I started to apply
myself a little bit more full-time. Had
to put together a management group to
start managing the business and started
applying myself more as a supervisor.
Spent almost seven, eight years doing
that. And I was a relatively young guy,
33, four, and Willie Brown was termed
out as mayor. And there was an open with
the mayor's uh uh seat. And I think at
33, I announced why the hell not. Um,
you know, give it a shot. Miss 100% of
shots you don't take. And uh was I think
pulling third or fourth and decided to
go for it and ran for mayor of San
Francisco.
>> You became mayor of San Francisco. You
had a big impact while you were mayor of
San Francisco. One of the things people
remember you a lot for is your attitude
towards same-sex couples and the uh
Defense of Marriage Act
>> where you took a quite a controversial
stance at the time by enabling
I believe it was um same-sex couples in
the state to get their marriage
licenses.
>> Well, I was uh yeah, it was uh 2004 and
uh my party, the Democratic party was
not uh um people were not enthusiastic,
weren't even promoting. In fact, they
were almost universally opposed to
same-sex marriage. And I had an
experience in Washington DC. Nancy
Pelosi, the speaker of the house,
invited me as a new mayor to listen to
George Bush give his final State of the
Union speech. And I was there um with an
extra ticket, her husband's ticket. And
I was up there in the rafters listening
to George Bush give a speech. And in the
speech, he's talking about Iraq war.
He's talking about a lot of interesting
things. And he ends with, "It's time for
a constitutional amendment to ban
same-sex marriage." And everyone starts
applauding and the people around me are
applauding. I'm like, Jesus. I walk back
out and you had to put your cell phones,
early cell phone days. And we're all in
line waiting to get our cell phones
back. And I remember the couple right
next to me as I'm waiting in line after
the speech goes, that was a hell of a
speech. The president gave, I'm so sick
and tired. I'll never forget these guys
said, "I'm so sick and tired of the
homosexual agenda." And I'm like, and I
literally turned homosexual. It was
porative. And all I thought about is,
man, I want to introduce myself as mayor
of San Francisco. I didn't say a word. I
didn't even thought about marriage
equality. When I ran for mayor, no one
asked me about it. They were talking
about domestic partnerships. It was
literally that moment that I walked
outside, used that cell phone, called my
chief of staff, and said, "We need to do
something about it." He goes, "What do
you mean?" And I said, "Well, I'm gonna
come back tomorrow, man. Let's do
something." I just got elected mayor and
made the decision then and it unfolded a
few weeks later to start marrying
same-sex couples. And we married Phyllis
Lion and Delm Martin. And they've been
together almost 50 years. You talk about
faith, love, and devotion, constancy,
what marriage should be about. They were
denied the ability to marry for only one
reason. They were a same-sex couple. And
uh we decided to test the law and was
told that people found out and they were
not going to allow us to move forward
with the first this marriage. We were
going to do a simple ceremonial marriage
and then file a lawsuit. Courts open at
9:00. They were going to do a temporary
restraining order. I realized I was
mayor. I could open city hall earlier.
So we opened city hall at 8. We married
Phyllis and Lion. Phyllis and Lion um
and Dell rather and nine o'clock the
courts opened and we waited for the
decision and the judge said there's no
irreparable harm. There's no reason to
have a temporary resting which meant
that we could keep marrying same couples
which was not what we had imagined.
Fast forward what we call the winter of
love in San Francisco not the summer of
love. February 2004, 4,036 couples from
46 states in eight countries came to San
Francisco to live their lives out loud
to say I do in this magical experience
that just shook me to the core and
changed
just my relationship to my party. They
were pissed.
They were furious.
>> The Democratic party.
>> Yes. And I got an earful from all of
them. people I adored, revered. The same
people, the same people said, all of
them. I mean, this is the road advice
that everyone goes, "Whatever you do,
just do the right thing. Do what you
think is right." I remember that's what
they, you know, hey, young man, congrats
on being married. Just do what you think
is right.
>> You do what you think is right. How the
who the hell are you? I mean, I remember
those, who the hell are you to do what
you just did? And it sort of shook my
confidence in this whole bracket of
politics. like what am I doing? What did
I just do? Um but it was it was a hell
of a first impression as mayor uh to do
that and uh that sort of started my
political life.
>> When I overlap the dates here, you win
your mayoral mayoral race in 2003.
>> Um your mother was getting was sick in
the years in the leadup to that. She was
diagnosed with breast cancer.
>> Yep. So, you're contending with the
woman in your life who's clearly had the
most impactful role on shaping who you
are and being there for you when the
odds were against you and when no one
else was. In the leadup and as your sort
of political career starts to
accelerate, she is suffering with breast
cancer.
>> Yep. And also suffering with her son
being in politics. She did not want me
to go in politics. In fact,
the the biggest
regret she had is that I was walking
down the path that my father was
interested in that led to their divorce
in the first place. He pursued politics
and lost in two elections for state
senate and for county supervisor.
Ironically, the seat that I held lost
both races, was in debt, was humiliated,
defeated, said he had a breakdown, and
left. That's when they got divorced. and
she saw me walking down his path and she
loved seeing me in business. She ended
up working for me as our bookkeeper and
she saw my passion in the business. She
said, "Why the hell you getting in
politics? Don't do this to yourself."
And she literally near deathbed said,
"Just please don't do this. Don't don't
keep doing this." She was really upset
that I ran for mayor.
something I think about. You know, there
there's days where I'm like I go, "She
told me so." You know, when you're
sitting there facing a recall, you're
like, "Told you." So,
>> a recall for anyone that doesn't know is
>> No, they just, you know, in the middle
of, you know, you get a four-year term
and two years later they say you and
they get a petition and try to get rid
of you. And uh I faced that just second
time in a half century in California. I
I defeated it overwhelmingly. But that
was a hell of a thing to experience and
to see the nationalization of that
recall. I mean, the the entire
Republican party came out to try to take
me out politically. And you think about
what your mom said, like she may have
been right. When did you realize that
your mother wasn't going to make it with
her breast cancer?
>> It was when it she she went through so
often as a case. She fought back. It was
in remission and then boom, it hit
again. And it metastasized and it was
and she did it was I'll tell you this I
will never ever ever ever recommend for
anyone. And this is just my own personal
experience. She called me, left a voice
message.
Imagine getting this voice message.
I was very busy doing all this stuff and
obviously not attentive enough to her.
And she was making the point. She goes,
"Hi honey, it's your mother. I know you
haven't seen me in a while, but next
Thursday I won't be around, so you may
want to come next Wednesday because it
will be my last day."
Literally left a voicemail like that. I
called my sister. I'm like, "What the
hell is this?" She goes, "She's crying."
And she said, "She just told me she's
going to do an assisted suicide because
it's so bad." She left a voicemail. And
so that next week I was there, my sister
and I were in her room. Doctor comes in,
gives her some what turned out to be
oxycottton. I remember like early on
like what are these pills? She had to
take those an hour before he got there.
She takes them.
God is my going through [__] photos
like this, man. It's all she wanted to
see. All the old photos of us growing
up. And we're sitting there on my sister
on the left, I'm on the right, my mom
there took these pills waiting for the
doctor and she's going through all these
old photo albums of us growing up
talking about these moments. Yeah. Come
on, man.
So,
yeah. And uh but wanted to be there for
her. doctor comes in and ministers and
she starts gasping. My sister runs out.
The doctor had already left and I was
like I She's gasping for air and I'm
just sitting there and holding her hand
and she's and her last breath and uh I
just sat there and my sister no one
walked in. I felt like for a day, it
felt like hours, but it was just
probably 10 minutes before someone
finally came in just sitting there with
my mother who passed away. And uh not
realizing that moment, what it
represented, what it ultimately meant.
Uh
I regret that was hard. I don't being
there for assisted suicide. Uh by the
way, I was proud we changed the law in
California. That was probably done
illegally. I don't even want to know.
And if you want to come after me, come
after me.
um she needed to do it. She was in so
much pain, suffering. Now it's legal to
do that, but it wasn't at the time when
she did it. Um and um so that was uh
that was a moment and um you know that
was you know
just became mayor. It was back to just
making stupid mistakes, man. You know,
you're brand new mayor, you're
overwhelmed, you're trying to figure
yourself out, you lose your mom, no
excuse. um was in a marriage that was
going south.
You know, it was a it was you know
>> what did she say to you when she I had
no idea that you sat there as she she
was administered the drugs that took her
life.
>> What were those conversations? What do
you say to someone in such a situation
where it's the last conversations you're
having?
It was um you know you you say the
prefuncter things you know just know how
much you meant to me how much I love you
everything else and and she um she all
she cared about is just don't forget me
she said that that was the last word she
said God is my witness don't forget me
and uh and one of the things I'm most
proud of my sister we started through
our plumpjack we start a foundation um
So, every year we raise money to cancer
research in my mom's name. And uh and
we've never forgotten her. And uh but
she was someone that could have easily
been forgotten, man. Um she's just, you
know, sacrificed everything for two
kids. She, you know, she left us her
character experience, no money, nothing.
I mean, she was just she struggled her
own life and uh just gave it all to us.
And uh so you know those are and we all
have people in our lives like that. What
a gift and uh you know I was blessed.
>> Were there any words unsaid? Sometimes
once people have moved on and you mature
as as an adult and a man you you see
things differently and you
>> I mentioned that earlier being perhaps
way too candid. I imagine after this is
over my folks what the hell were you you
know who cares? Life's too short. Um but
when I said you know when she talked
about being average I I didn't confront
her on that.
that just that was for me perhaps more
than her. It wasn't about me this
moment. It was about just, you know, it
was so important for her to walk through
all these memories. And again, that's
what it's about, man. It's memories,
moments. It's about nothing else.
>> When you're later, you win the race to
become governor of San Francisco. Do you
think about
her? Do you think Do you wish she could
have seen
>> Yeah. I I wish she could see my four
kids.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Come on.
>> Yeah.
>> I got sworn in as governor of California
and my wife's there and we got a
three-year-old. He's got his pacifier
and he's got his blanket and he in the
middle of my speech
runs up. I'm giving the speech stressed
out. Again, I don't read speeches. So,
it was a read I had to read. So, I'm
like, I can't look because I'm going to
lose my sight on the on the
teleprompter. And my son runs up. My
wife was nervous to run up on stage
because it was like, this is a big damn
deal. And he comes right up, grabs me.
And everyone kind of like is moving
around the audience. I'm like, what do I
do? And I like just instinctually lifted
him
>> and he put his head right on the side
and started to fall asleep. And I read
the speech with my son. No one remembers
a damn word I said. I don't remember a
word. Everyone remembers what it felt
like. Oh, I thought about that moment.
If my mom was around to see that
wasn't the governor, it was uh it was
the parent and uh yeah, sorry, ma'am.
It's uh unbecoming. Forgive me. But that
that uh I wish I wish he was around for
them. Why?
because it's uh well I wish I could
thank her for being an extraordinary
parent. I never did. I told you I took
her for granted. I never knew how hard
it was until I had my own kids. But I I
think she'd be so proud of of uh of of
our, you know, 9-year-old Dutch,
15year-old Montana. I think she'd be
proud of me in that respect. I think she
wanted me to be happy. She wanted me to
be a good husband. I got this incredible
rockstar wife, Jennifer. I got these
four unbelievable kids, man. Just filled
me with joy. Um I struggle to be a
better parent, husband, politics,
stress, you know, but u that's all she
wanted for me.
>> When you're in the public eye, um as I
guess I kind of am now because people
watch me a lot, man. Um, it's there's
always this balance between what people
see, which is a very two-dimensional
thing, which is what people see of me,
and then there's the the the imperfect
messy home life, which I contend with
every single day. Like, even on the way
here this morning, I'm like, I'm going
to be late for Gavin New Gavin Newsome
because my girlfriend's having like
period cramps, and I'm like, I don't
want to leave my girlfriend, but I need
to go. I'm going to be late. And I'm
like trying to, you know, and then we
had the alarms going off in the house.
And then the all the lights flicker cuz
we just moved in as you know. And then
the just craziness. And then you look at
my phone and there's business problems.
And then there's my my my family
problems are going on. And then I come
here
>> and I interview you.
>> I'm sorry. I feel like I got in your
way.
>> No, no, no. But obviously it's a great
it's a tremendous honor as you know, but
it's just it's I say that because there
is a behind the scenes and the behind
the scenes is not as perfect as the
exterior.
>> No. Oh man,
>> you were alluding to the season of your
life being filled with imperfection.
>> Yeah.
>> Tell me about the human imperfection
that was was taking place behind the
scenes as you were excelling
professionally.
>> I think there was a a magazine,
The Economist
did a headline said, "Young man in a
hurry, he wants to be governor."
Seriously. And it wasn't question mark.
It was more There we are. It was more
like like he's serious. He actually
thinks he could be governor. It was kind
of a snarky headline and piece, but the
headline struck me. Young man in a
hurry. That's who I was. Was the
entrepreneur. I'm sort of trying to, you
know, just trying to make things happen,
trying new things, seeing what works,
having a little bit more success than
failure. Um, you know, learning from
mistakes, moving on. Um, you know, move
pretty quickly, relatively young age. I
mean, I was, I think, one of the
youngest mayors in San Francisco
history. um you know in my 30s and um
and you know losing my mom a
relationship my my first wife who it was
ended extraordinarily well she's you
know I have nothing negative to say etc
but it ended that was embarrassing you
know it's you're it's in the public
everything's in the I'm growing up in
the public growing up with this just
bright lights
>> how did you [__] up
>> yeah I just I I I just I got I I didn't
I wasn't situationally aware I wasn't
emotionally
mature in terms I remember a good friend
of mine Mie Silver who's just a rock
star got my just just got my act she she
is the one who got me to get my act
together. She goes I said she goes
you're the mayor in San Francisco. I
said yeah I know. She goes well then
start acting like it. I said what are
you talking about? I said I said when I
go in I don't need to be in the front
row. She goes you need to be in the I
said I don't need to I don't like being
in the front I don't like I don't need
to be right. She says the [__] mayor
and you'll be in the front row and
you'll have people watch you in the
front row because that's what they want
from their mayor. And I'm like I
remember her saying this. I'm like what?
I just say she's like no I'm good. She
said it's not about you. I said well no
I I don't need that. I don't need to I
like the job. I don't that's that's not
part of the job. That's the p that's
like the press conference side. like I
don't and it was such a she literally it
had such a I remember that I remember
>> sitting there with dinner with her at
Delansancy Street when she said that to
me and it sort of hit me in the core.
There was I there was a lack of maturity
that I I was just the entrepreneur that
happened to be mayor and I
this is ironic based on our conversation
needed to play the role a little bit
more than I was and I needed to mature
and I needed to get my act together and
I you know and that I went through a
process there was a couple years there a
year where you know a lot of things
happened all at once and I was able to
get through it get reelected.
>> What were those things that happened all
at once?
>> Well, I mean, divorce, you lose your
mom, divorce, dealing with a new job,
dealing with high-profile decisions that
became very national. All of a sudden,
I'm, you know, punching above my weight
as a young elected official in ways that
I not many people didn't necessarily
imagine. Marriage quality issues being
one of them. other things that I was
involved in to your point about drinking
a little too much um and after the
divorce making some stupid mistakes that
uh that I owned up to and regret and uh
having to work through all that. I mean
these are you know it's around this time
you know and uh you know what I could
tell this kid.
>> What would you tell him?
>> Get your [__] together.
>> You're referring to an extrammarital
affair which you owned up to.
>> Yeah. I wasn't married, but she was. And
u and I it's funny. I I've got a a
little
>> um memoir that I'm putting out,
ironically, called Young Man in a Hurry
next year.
>> I love the title. I can relate as well
>> that I'm very, you know, I reflect on
that and dive deeper in a very
self-critical way and I hope very honest
way and I hope people can appreciate
that. I think people will because I
think every normal human being
understands that they too are imperfect
and especially when life takes hold
>> and you're growing and you're learning.
We all make mistakes. I've made mistakes
and I expect to make a lot more.
>> Yeah.
>> But I think it's in the admittance of
those mistakes and acknowledging them
that that's where we uh
>> that's where we find out who we actually
are.
>> Yeah.
>> You know,
>> and Yeah. Humiliated. Humiliated.
>> I had no knowledge of any of this stuff.
But so when you say humiliated, I
>> I just humiliated my dad. Uh he said
something and I'll tell you it carried
forward with me. He told me at the time
uh he was so disappointed in me and he
said you go home with the one who
brought you to the dance.
[__] And that was the impact I had on
one of my friends that I you know
because of that very and I don't it's
not a way it's just like the shortest.
It wasn't even a relationship was like
just just some stupid stuff. And um and
I've just tried to you know I think the
fact that we're friends today is like
really important to me like one of the
most important things like to sort of
reconcile and that's been really u
profoundly important as part of a
journey. Uh but you know I let him down
I embarrassed my dad. I embarrassed
myself. I wasn't myself and u I had to
get my [__] together and um and did I
just a drop of the dime. I mean back to
just Mimi Silver just a rock star. and
she told me, you know, I remember she
said, "You're coming over to see me
tonight and we're going to fix this."
>> I've built companies from scratch and
backed many more. And there's a blind
spot that I keep seeing in early stage
founders. They spend very little time
thinking about HR. And it's not because
they're reckless or they don't care.
It's because they're obsessed with
building their companies. And I can't
fault them for that. At that stage,
you're thinking about the product, how
to attract new customers, how to grow
your team, really, how to survive. And
HR slips down the list because it
doesn't feel urgent, but sooner or later
it is. And when things get messy, tools
like our sponsor today, just works go
from being a nice to have to being a
necessity. Something goes sideways and
you find yourself having conversations
you did not see coming. This is when you
learn that HR really is the
infrastructure of your company and
without it, things wobble. And Just Work
stops you learning this the hard way. It
takes care of the stuff that would
otherwise drain your energy and your
time, automating payroll, health
insurance benefits, and it gives your
team human support at any hour. It grows
with your small business from startup
through to growth, even when you start
hiring team members abroad. So, if you
want HR support that's there through the
exciting times and the challenging
times, head to justworks.com now. That's
just.com.
At that age, you were a very young man.
I mean, you still look look like a young
man now. God bless you, brother.
>> Um, but uh, young men are in particular
have a particular set of struggles in
the modern world and you've used certain
words that sort of parlay into that.
You've used the words purpose and
meaning
>> and if we look at some of the stats
around how young men are doing in the
country, it's not great. And even even
young boys are doing terribly across the
world for a variety of reasons. And when
we think about the political climate and
what's happened in this last election
cycle and how young men are voting
increasingly for a certain set of ideas,
what what what do you think is going on
with young men and what is the solution
or answer that will lead them to a
better outcome?
>> You know, I'm really proud. My wife um
who's been a real leader, she's done a
half dozen documentaries. She did one
that was particularly wellreceived
called um a misrepresentation about the
myths and disinformation around women
and girls. She followed up with two
years later in 2015
uh with a documentary called The Mask
You Live In about masculinity. In 2015,
she was highlighting all the things the
trend lines a decade ago that are
headlines today
>> as it relates to the crisis of of boys
and men. And she was noting the suicide
rate. She was talking about, you know,
deaths of despair. She was talking about
educational attainment. She was talking
about all these issues that were a next
level crisis. And it was so ahead of her
time in so many respects. And and she's
come back to me on that over and over
again, particularly with our two boys
and their maturation versus my two girls
uh in the relationship we have to our
deeper understanding of how men and u
and and girls and women and boys are
different. And and so this is code red
in this country around the world
increasingly. And if it was happening to
any minority group, particularly in my
party, the Democratic party, we'd be all
over it. Instead, we've been timid about
it because men have this sort of
hierarchical uh benefits in society. Go
back hundreds and hundreds of years. Oh,
men are really struggling really.
>> You know, men still dominate in all
these key positions of power and
influence. But when you see all what's
happening underneath, it is a crisis.
And as a consequence, the Republican
party, Donald Trump in particular, and I
think some respects, what's happening in
this sort of manosphere, and I don't
mean that pjoratively, but in, you know,
there's been not an exploitation, at
least there's a recognition and a
relationship to it that has attracted a
lot of young men that are seeking
meaning, purpose, and mission. And as a
consequence, it's also been weaponized
uh particularly by one party in a way
that I don't think is ultimately
beneficial or positive. Our party needs
to own up to that and we need to address
these realities. Uh Richard Reeves is
doing amazing work on it. Scott Galloway
is doing amazing work on it. So many
folks in this space uh you know cats
been doing a decade ago talking about
it. But Democratic Party, my party needs
to own up in the space. And just so I'm
not, you know, accused of preaching and
not practicing, I've worked for the last
six months on an executive order that
we're about to release in this space
that goes to issues around education.
Can't be what you can't see. And a lot
of these kindergarten, elementary
teachers, most of them are women. is so
about recruiting more men uh to become
teachers, focusing on caregiving,
focusing more broadly on very
intentional interventions to begin to
address this crisis.
>> The Democratic Party, I think it's fair
to say, most certainly played their hand
wrong in this regard. And the word
played is obviously again comes loaded,
but but very much I think
I think to so some I think people could
fairly say to some degree turned against
or misunderstood men is a probably a
better way of saying it. Misunderstood
the plight of men and boys. and the the
the Republican party I think the message
that they offered although there's
shades of
you know behavior or um narrative that
is not productive
at least spoke directly to men
>> 100% we didn't
>> what do you think the Democratic party
got wrong as it relates to appealing to
young men what's the narrative that the
Democratic party projected but shouldn't
have
>> I think there was just deep lack of
empathy.
>> Yeah.
>> Care, any compassion to what was going
on. This this uh and and and
recognition, even deeper understanding.
I think it's still some I still have
conversations with folks and and people
are very uncomfortable in my party
talking about this, particularly members
of my party in leadership positions,
particularly women that just feel like,
come on, we just went through me too.
We're struggling with gender inequality
inequality. We still don't have equal
representations in all these CEO
positions and obviously we're struggling
in legislatores. Uh we continue to have
this glass ceiling we can't break and
what more proof do you need than Kla
Harris and and uh and Hillary Clinton.
Uh we don't even get paid for uh the
same amount as as men and what the hell
are you talking to me about the unique
plight and challenges of men. And then
you start saying well there's going to
be two to one graduates coming from our
UC system here in California in the next
six years. They're like that's not true.
and and then they see the stats women
and they go, "Oh, I didn't realize
that." Or
>> two to one women graduating
>> versus I mean, we're on that track. I
mean, we're moving down that path in the
UK.
>> You see the suicide rates are just off
the chart. You see the deaths of
despair, meaning overdoses off the
charts.
>> And you see all of these indexes of
unhappiness and loneliness and
isolation. You see, I mean, Scott, it's
been just he's the best. I mean, talking
about what this means in terms of just
the inability for for boys to ever
become men, to be caregivers. uh to be
those warriors, to have, you know, to to
be uh those role models, to even have to
have the masculine traits of just being
able to be engaged in a real
relationship as opposed to attached to
some notion of relationship online porn
or something. And so I it's a
comprehensive strategy that needs to be
engaged. And for me politically, it's as
I said, it's code red. not just the
substance, the morality of it, but also
the politics attached to it because the
other parties weaponize this and it's
it's multicultural. It's multi-thnic.
It's not just it's not just white male
uh grievance that's being expressed in
this space.
>> If and when you become president in 2028
or another year,
>> how is the attitude towards men going to
shift and what are the practical ways
that you get there towards, you know,
>> well, I don't think you wait for that
moment. And I think we have to shape
that moment. I think we have to take
responsibility. We have to take account.
We have to have a sober, first of all,
you have to have a deeper sober
reflection. Why the hell Democratic
party is at 27% in polls just a few
months ago. I mean, it's a toxic party
in terms of its brand.
>> Why?
>> Uh, exactly. We need to understand that.
I can give you 25 theories.
>> Can you give me super because I'm not a
politician, so I don't understand a lot
of the political talk, but like that is
staggering.
>> Yes.
>> And and why did it happen?
>> Thank you. No, but that was the
question. Why? How does that
>> why it's one of the reasons I started my
own podcast. It was part of that
exploration. Again, back to humility and
grace. Two words I'll use over and over
and over and over again. Seek first to
understand before you're understood. I
listened to all the punditry hours after
the election results. Yeah.
>> And everyone was an expert. I'm like,
that's amazing. You're an expert. It was
Israel for sure. No, it was inflation
for sure. No, it was interest rates for
sure. No, it was incumbency uh for sure.
No, it was uh it was woke for sure. It
was trans for sure. Everyone was for
sure. They knew exactly what it was. I'm
like, "This is amazing. Everyone just
knows what's going on." Meanwhile, I'm
like 20 pages in writing this down. Say,
"Oh, it it's about loss of man." "Oh,
no. It's about the man of No, it's about
it was about Joe Rogan. We didn't go on
Joe." Oh, for sure. It was about No, she
didn't, you know, she didn't say this or
she it was the view for sure. She could
have separated from Biden. No, it was it
was a And and then I'm like, "Well, wait
a second. I I need to really understand
this more fully. Well, you know, uh and
so that became my own journey back to
the entrepreneur of the trying to
iterate and deciding to get some folks
that I vehemently disagree on with it on
my on a new podcast, Charlie Kirk,
because you know, for sure he was
successful in convincing a lot of young
men to turn out in record numbers for
Trump. I wanted to learn about that.
Back to notion of success leaves clues.
>> I want to pick his brain. What are you
doing, right, man? Show some humility
and grace as it relates to uh not try to
be argumentative in in the interview.
Just I'm trying to pick I want to know
why you're so successful. That offended
a lot of people.
>> Uh there he's got a plan. He's executing
a plan. He's got a strategy. He's got a
date that he's identified with a goal
attached to it. Uh he's got a dream with
a deadline. He's there in places people
don't expect him to be. He's meeting
with folks without any filter. He's
willing to confront people he disagrees
with and and agrees with. He's willing
to be out there on the field. He's he's
organized a construct and he's been very
deliberative at building a sense of
community and this notion of community.
We all want to be connected to something
bigger than ourselves is a big part of
this as well. Part of the MAGA movement.
And particularly with people feeling
disconnected, you're naturally going to
want to find your way back to something
bigger than themselves that sort of
moores you and gives you a sense of
purpose and meaning as well.
>> And when people are lost, they do go in
search of someone who resonates with
them and someone who speaks directly to
that their plight. And I my observation
as someone that's not an American, when
I think about someone like Charlie Kirk
versus Camala Harris, it's the absolute
opposite approach.
>> Yeah.
>> Camala Harris, lots of people say she
avoided going on Rogan. She wanted him
to fly to She wanted Rogan to fly to
her. She was going to give him a tiny
short time window. It was probably going
to be a bit sanitized in all all
respects. And then Charlie Kirk sits on
campuses across the US and has students
come up and ask him any question. And
his response is he shows you his
response to his credit and he um is
doesn't care about sanitization or being
politically correct.
>> Correct. and he puts it on YouTube for
hours and hours and hours and hours. And
I think in a glassbox world where we get
to see inside now because of technology,
the blackbox approach where your PR team
paints tries to paint an image on the
outside is over. And we saw it in the
election cycle. And you're doing you're
leading the I have to give you credit.
You are leading the charge there because
I can't think of another key political
figure globally who has started a
podcast where you literally invite the
other side on. So, you're doing I think
you're playing the glass box approach.
>> I app I love the way you describe that
and I I everything you said resonated
with me. Um had Steve Bannon on.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is just in of itself was
interesting. Look um
these folks exist and persist. You can
deny it. My party can deny it at its own
peril. Back to your point about what the
hell's happened to my party. And so
trying to understand that, trying to
unpack that. But you know it's
interesting just I think you know comma
is an old friend of mine. I don't want
to get into comma and I say old friend
and people roll their eyes in politics.
People say you know old friend it means
they're friendnemies. It's not but we we
go back before we were both in politics.
We both share that Willie Brown the
former mayor in common in terms of a
relationship that we both had. Uh and as
a consequence of the relationship we had
with him uh we were able to get to know
one another as sort of this cohort. And
um and I I I think a lot about you know
>> what we've just gone through. I wish I'd
love to see Ka
>> on your show.
>> I'd love to see her picture of mom and
dad and I know her as well or better
than most.
>> Yeah.
>> But I would love to see that side of
her.
>> I would. So this notion of what' you
say? Glass box.
>> Glass box versus black box.
>> Black box.
>> Uh hey I'm on here for a reason. Yeah, I
just, you know, it's like I'm out of any
excuse. Look, you are who you are and uh
let it let it all out there. And I think
people I I I I think we claim we long
for authenticity. I still mostly believe
that. Sometimes I question that because
people want you to be your authentic
self, but they're like, "Well, don't
swear as much or be your authentic self,
but don't be so emotional or be your
authentic self, but there's a but." Uh
but I think at the end of the day, I
think we're we've crossed that. I think
we're on the other side. People just
want more of you, whoever the hell you
are,
>> regardless of what it is.
>> Because even the crazy thing I I observe
about Trump is even the imperfect things
he says that would once upon a time have
revolted on people and would have had
adverse reactions.
The fact that he's willing to say them
creates the impression in my mind that I
know who he is.
>> Yeah. And you don't have to like
someone, but if you trust that you know
who they are, then you feel, I think,
safer in predicting what they'll do.
>> Totally.
>> Now, if I don't see Kamala sat on Joe
Rogan or some someone like this, getting
to know her unfiltered. You know, you
your team didn't tell me this. Your team
didn't give me any parameters. They
didn't say you can't ask him about this.
Don't talk about this. There was no
parameters.
>> At least people will know who you are.
>> Yeah. And I think most people don't.
They see me as sort of, you know, slick
guy that, you know, was they think I was
grew up in with a trust fund. Everything
was handed to them. People don't know my
entrepreneurial background. I don't
think they they they they they believe
what they they may have seen on Fox News
out here or, you know, One American News
and the weaponization of that. And so,
you know, I just it's critical, I think,
for our party generally. I think for
both parties now, just you've just got
to get out of that bubble. I give Trump,
to your point, credit in that respect in
every way, shape, or form. criticize him
for many things. He can't criticize him
for accessibility, uh, for at least
appearing to be authentic in terms of
his approach, his willingness to
confront and engage. And I I think
that's very refreshing.
>> How do you think America's doing?
>> I think we're struggling our identity. I
think we're um, you know, Trump has made
it made us feel free to shove again.
It's not our better selves. Um, you
know, the the sort of John Meechum
language, you know, the soul of America
is is is is struggling. And I really
worry about our institutions. I worry
about our democracy. I worry about
neighbors turning on neighbors. Uh,
people forgetting the universal truths
that we all want to be loved. We all
need to be loved. I talked about
everybody needing to be connected. We
also need to be respected. And I think
people are talking down to each other,
talk, talking past each other. It's
again why I want platform people I
disagree with. and Nuke Gingrich on,
former Speaker Gingrich who led my
recall effort against me. You know, I
just I'm trying to just find some
balance in that respect because, you
know, there are good people that
vehemently disagree with us. Uh I don't
know that it benefits any of us to uh to
demean or belittle folks. That's my
thing with Trump. He attacks vulnerable
communities. My mom her what her real
early indelible inspiration for me in
terms of one of those two to three jobs
she had wasn't just working as a
waitress and doing the bookkeeping but
she worked for aid to adoption of
special kids with the Debult family that
had kids with intellectual and physical
uh disabilities. And I remember with
spending time with these kids and I hate
bullies. I I mean forgive the word hate.
I know I I just I dislike I hate
bullies. I don't like people demeaning
other people. I don't like people
scapegoing scapegoating vulnerable
communities. My why is standing up for
ideals and striking out against
injustice. It defines nine out of 10
things for me, personal, professional,
standing up for ideals, striking out
against injustice. And it's just to me
unjust to see people demeaned and
belittled and to use to see vulnerable
communities used as ponds to talk about,
you know, alligator whatever and and
Florida and talk about immigrants and de
demeaning uh in ways and they have to
zigg and zagu if they want to avoid
getting killed by an alligator or
something or mocking people with
disabilities. I that's where I that's
where I get that's where I stand firm
and uh right now my biggest fear you
asked about how where our country is. I
feel like Trump has opened that overturn
window in a way uh that I very concerned
about our ability to get back to find
our better humanity.
>> Who does Trump care about
>> himself? Period. Full stop. It's not
complicated. He doesn't he doesn't care
if he's the heel or the hero as long as
he's the star.
I mean, it's and that's just anyone that
spent time with them. I spent time with
this much more than any Democrat,
certainly any Democratic governor in the
country. Period. Full stop. I did it
through COVID my his first term and
certainly even in the second term.
>> And what surprised you?
>> Nothing that surprised me now is that
he's a very different guy than he was in
the first term. He's uh there's no
limits now. It's there's a megalomania
there.
>> Megalamia.
>> He feels no limits now. And you feel
that in every way. He can say and do
whatever the hell he wants. And there's
no oversight. There's no advise and
consent. There's no co-equal branch of
government. Speaker of our House of
Representatives completely abdicated
that. The question is, do the courts
hold up? Or we the people? And uh I'll
tell you that and we're celebrating our
250th anniversary of the founding
fathers, the best of the Roman Republic,
Greek democracy. and and uh you know
this notion of of of system of checks
and balances, popular sovereignty and uh
I think it's uh it's on life support now
and I don't say that lightly. I say that
very thoughtfully and I say that as a
guy that's watched the president of the
United States not send military in his
first term
or his first six months anywhere in the
world except to an American city where
he has 5,000 military in the streets of
Los Angeles. A war within. So, I say
this very soberly and mindful of the
moment we are in American history.
>> Do you think he wants to see you fail?
>> I think he wants to take me out and down
at the same time. I think he enjoys the
sparring with me. I think he I think he
thrives on it. I know he does.
>> Cuz he calls you Gavin New Scum. Yes.
>> But then meets with you privately. Yeah.
>> And what are those meetings like?
>> Unbelievably cordial. Unbelievably it
drives people crazy when I say this, but
I'd be lying if I didn't say it. every
time I have a conversation, including
the the night before he quote unquote
federalized the National Guard. We had
an unbelievably good conversation and we
were going back and forth. He said, "Use
this cell phone. Keep keep calling me on
this cell phone directly. You need
anything, call me. You need anything,
call me." Which is an amazing final
statement as I hung up. Only to read
eight hours later uh that new scum I
read him the riot act, which he never
did. Completely made 100% made it up and
then federalizes the guard. Um, it's uh
it's a game. It's a show. It's a
dangerous game and it's a very
exhausting show and it's becoming
derivative and uh and more dangerous.
>> Isn't this just how politics goes in
America?
>> Shouldn't No, it shouldn't. Look, I used
to have my beef with George W. Bush,
George HW Bush. We we'd have our beefs
on the other side. Uh Republicans
certainly with Clinton or Obama or even
Biden. Long for those days. University.
I go in the office of Ronald Reagan's
old office, Governor Ronald Reagan,
that's my old office in as governor of
California. I mean, you know, his his
last speech in the Oval Office, his last
speech was about the life force of new
Americans, Lady Liberty's torch, our
better angels. I mean, what happened to
that Republican party? Um, and uh this
is different. This is darkness.
>> Really
>> darkness
>> because I hear this every election
cycle.
>> No, this is this is dark. We're we're
only six months in. Mhm.
>> The vandalization that he's done to this
democracy and institutions. I mean,
eliminating oversight. I'm not just
talking about a co-equal branch of
government.
>> What does that mean for the average
person that doesn't
>> It means there's no He's eliminated the
inspector general's auditing capacity.
He's going after uh polit political
opponents, removing them from key
positions of power and influence and
putting in uh acolytes, putting out
people uh that just do his bidding. He's
pushing the boundaries on the rule of
law. He's threatening to recall not just
people he disagrees with. He wanted my
arrest. Remember the president of the
United States said Nome should be
arrested. They said on what grounds he
got elected. Said he doesn't like the
fact that his political enemy got
elected. It means he's not he doesn't
say that lightly. And you know once the
mind is stretched it never goes back to
its original form. So every time he does
this he's sort of testing these
boundaries. And this is what makes me
more concerned. I'll give you a proof
point. God is my witness. We're sitting
here when we do this today on this
podcast. We just I just read this
morning that Donald Trump was on the
phone with the Texas legislature and
they're going through a redistricting
thing to basically get five more seats
for the midterms
because they're likely to lose the
midterms and Trump is likely to lose
power unless they can change the
districts and rig the game. So he stays
in power.
>> Do you think he's going to try and stay
in power
>> when people close to Donald Trump when
people close to Donald Trump send the
governor of California
>> a hat that says Trump 2028?
They're not around.
>> They sent you a hat saying Trump 2028.
>> 2028. They're not screwing around. I sat
in the Oval Office for 90 minutes with
Donald Trump, first Democratic governor
to do that. And he was looked and he
looked around. I said, "Hey, so he was
behind you." I said, I looked around the
pictures. I'm like, "Fdr." And I
literally turned. I'm like, "Oh,
seriously?" He goes, "Yeah." Goes, "What
do you think? Three terms, four terms?"
I said, "Oh, come on." And then he just
starts laughing because he's lighting.
He's having fun, but again, he's
throwing things out. He's Yes, he's
iterating.
>> Do you think he would stay for a third,
fourth time?
>> Yeah. I mean, he I think he's the guy
that tried to wreck this country, try to
light our democracy on fire. He said it
was it was a day of love January 6. So
much so that he literally, as you know,
pardoned everybody that participated in
that melee. I mean, that happened. That
is grounds in and of itself to question
whether or not I'm overstating anything.
And that was first week in office. It's
it's I mean, this is shock and awe. We
have people in masks
going to car washes without identifying.
And people are disappearing in the
streets of America today. Thousands of
people disappearing on the streets of
America today based on what you look
like, your skin color on the streets of
America today. That's happening. That is
not normal. And every day he's able to
shapeshift and distract us to move
someplace else. I've got a big
announcement, huge announcement on
Putin. I'll do major sanctions in 50
days. Really? I mean, this ability to
distract, it's serious with lies
underneath is serious. And I don't think
I'm exaggerating. And I am very very
cautious when it comes to this kind of
language because you're right. when you
you tend to say you know you know you
crying wolf here uh I don't think we're
overstating the seriousness uh that uh
we have to push back the seriousness of
purpose to which this moment needs to be
met that is
>> really this is not just another you know
president comes in they do a bunch of
changes a bunch of executive orders and
then they they leave in three and a half
years
>> he tried to stay into office he called
the elections chief in Georgia and asked
I just need a few thousand votes. He
wasn't [__] around. He was not joking
about that. He was dead serious about
that. And had they found that, he would
have rigged his own election. You
serious? What more evidence do you need?
He's quite literally they're so
concerned about taking over the House.
Now, Democrats were on path to do it.
They have to re-rig the game. And you
think if they don't take back the House
of Representatives,
they won't move from some form of voter
suppression the likes of which we've
never seen in this country, threats of
martial law. What do you think this
whole experiment with 5,000 military
weeks and weeks and weeks doing nothing,
by the way? They're sitting in the
armory. They're doing nothing. They're
there for show, but he's pushing the
boundaries of what they're capable of
doing. Testing the courts and the
constitution. That's for a larger
purpose. And I'm not trying to be, you
know, I'm not trying to be m it may not
be intentional purpose yet, but they'll
place an opportunity to utilize the
lessons learned here today to extend
their reach and power tomorrow. And I
very much, yes, I worry about our
democracy in three and a half years. And
I worry about that election if they
maintain their power in the House of
Representatives. I'm that deeply
concerned. Dead serious.
>> On the balance of probability, do you
think it's likely Trump will stay try
and stay in office in 2028?
>> On the balance probability, no.
>> No. Okay.
>> But I can see a scenario, but not on the
balance probability. And that's on the
basis of one thing, time of life.
>> Oh, okay. He's
>> if he was 69, not 79.
>> Look, he uh this is the great grift.
He's he he did what he never did in the
first term. He played in the margins. he
was able to take advantage of his brand
and his businesses and make a few bucks
here and there, but not the money he's
making now. I mean, the crypto,
everything he's doing. I mean, I mean,
the kids now selling cell phones, the
whole thing, monetizing everything,
coming out with new brands and new plan.
I mean, he it he finally is doing what
he didn't do the first term is now is
he's president of United States, but now
he's going to make a fortune. So when
he's no longer president, he'll have a
$400 million plan that has a billion
dollars of upgrades on it that'll be
donated to the foundation that he can
use for the rest of his life. Thank you
to the Qataris. He will have billions
and billions of dollars. He'll make the
vast majority of his wealth in just a
few years as president of the United
States. He will set himself up in that
respect. He'll have hundreds and
hundreds of millions of dollars of
excess campaign cash that he'll be able
to use for whatever luxurious lifestyle
he ever needs. And I imagine that may
satisfy him as long as he gets his
person in to replace him so they can
continue that griff going forward.
>> The American people elected him. They
said that's our guy.
>> That's why my party needs to own up to
that. And u this is existential. We need
to do better and we need to I'm uh
that's correct. Are you fa are you
faithful hopeful that the Democratic
party are going to wake up in time to
field a serious campaign that can
compete with that very sort of dominant
prevailing narrative?
>> I think it it starts yesterday. It's not
about the guy or guy on the white horse
to come save the day. It's not about
2028. It's about the midterms which we
just talked about. It's also about what
happens between now and the midterms.
It's about the rule of law. It's about
courts. It's about governors. It's about
states. It's about mayors. It's about we
the people citizens. I mean it look I
was inspired in the no kings day. I mean
you guys know a little bit about kings.
I mean the no kings day five million
people showed up on Trump's birthday.
That gave me hope
>> which was a sort of a protest against
authoritarianism.
>> Yeah. Against Yeah. It was look it, you
know, it was Justice Brand. I said in a
democracy the most important office is
not office of president, governor,
mayor, office of citizen.
>> You're an entrepreneur. How do you think
your party have done with appealing to
entrepreneurs? terrible
>> you you preside over San Francisco which
is globally we think of as the center
point of innovation and technology
>> terrible
>> but I I think the perception is that the
Democratic party don't like
entrepreneurs and the Republicans it's
the home of entrepreneurship in fact all
of my friends that are entrepreneurs if
if they were being honest in private
they would say that they lean towards
the Republican party as it relates to
entrepreneurship
>> I it's amazing but you know it's
interesting since 1989 the end of the
cold war
>> in the United States of America there's
been 52 million jobs created
There have been three Republican
administrations, three Democratic
administrations. So, it's fair to say,
how'd we do? Republican administrations,
Democratic administrations since 1989
and then Cold War at the end of last
year. 52 million jobs. And you'd say,
well, it's maybe 5050. Maybe Republicans
on the basis of your entrepreneur
friends. Republicans probably did 60% of
those jobs were created. Well, 50 of the
52 million were created under Democratic
administrations. 1.9 million jobs
created during Republican
administrations. You look at the last
three Republican presidents, they have
one thing in common, recessions. During
the last administration under Joe Biden,
created 16.6 million jobs. And I know a
lot of those were COVID jobs, but he
blew past that after 18 months. He
created eight times more jobs than the
last three Republican administrations
combined.
>> But economy does better. Job creation
thrives during Democratic
administrations. But perception is
exactly what you said.
>> Yes. So you you you gave me the logic.
>> I know.
>> But the brain isn't orientated towards
logic. It's narrative.
>> Where where's the economy in this
country? Why are we the fourth largest
economy in the world? We have four of
the top seven market cap companies in
the world. Nvidia just came with $4
trillion market cap. We dominate 32 of
the top 50 AI companies are right here
in California. We're dominating every
key industry. We're the biggest
manufacturing state. We dominate naming
industry. California dominates.
>> So why are entrepreneurs so pissed off
state?
>> Why are entrepreneurs in your state
pissed off? 71% of the GDP in this
country are blue metro counties.
>> Elon left. He went to Texas. He
>> left and came right back. Where's Grock?
Where's Where's his R&D headquarters,
world headquarters? Where are the vast
majority of his jobs for SpaceX and and
Tesla? He did that because he wanted to
make a buck so he can avoid capital
gains and avoid income tax as he cashes
out on 20 years of large s by the
taxpayers in California that created a
regulatory environment that created the
industry because of our vehicle
emissions standards and subsidized that
industry with billions and billions of
dollars of taxpayer money to make Elon
rich. And then he turned his back so he
didn't have to pay capital gains.
>> Do you know I think
>> and by the way he's back all his AI.
Where's all his AI? It's in California.
Where are all of his research and
development folks? All in California.
>> Everything you said might be true and I
don't know the details of it, so I can't
comment on that. But again, perception,
come back to perception. I agree.
>> When I in my, you know, over in the UK,
when I watch the Democratic party um
attacking these really successful
individuals,
>> I hate that.
>> And and Biden attacking Elon Musk. Look,
look, I'm not going to go into the
details of Elon Musk and his
imperfections.
He makes it easy to attack. Both parties
are doing
>> but let's try and let's just try and hit
this point which is the Democratic party
tend to be the ones who are criticizing
the world's most successful people and
saying that they're this and this and
never pausing to say
>> actually they did something good as
well.
>> And it's the lack of nuance for me where
I go I can't I can't trust that these
people are just pure evil. I can't trust
that they're just pure evil and only bad
things which is all I hear. But on the
right side you might hear the opposite.
Where is the nuance here? Like, can you
say something positive about Elon Musk?
>> I've been there's been no bigger
champion of Elon Musk for 20 years than
I have. I've been his biggest supporter.
In fact, I have one of the first Teslas
right off the factory floor. I've been
his biggest promoter and supporter for
decades and decades. So, I've said that
over and over and over again.
>> All tends to be negative about these
these entrepreneurs. You know, you you
can understand from like left politics
around the world does seem to have a
certain disdain for successful
entrepreneurs.
>> So, let's talk about that. It is the
worst part of my party. I can't stand
it. I do not begrudge other people's
success. I I'm inspired by it. I admired
it. We opened this conversation up all
these heroes of mine. Like, and Richard
Branson's a hero of mine. I love his
success. I love his audacity. I love his
ability to compete. I love his ability
to promote, create jobs, opportunity,
wealth. I think it is a big problem in
the Democratic party. And we do not do
enough to make this fundamental point,
you know, that that you cannot be pro
job and anti- business period.
>> And we need to say that and we need to
demonstrate that. Look, it drove me
crazy. Half my friends were up there,
like maybe not even half, a lot more
than half were up there with Donald
Trump when he got sworn in. And the
symbolism of that was he's got the back
and they have his back of entrepreneurs
uh and dream makers in this country.
>> Yeah. And I thought, Jesus, I mean, just
that alone, where the hell was my party?
Why aren't we making a case for
entrepreneurs and and business leaders?
>> Do you respect Elon?
>> I I've long respect him. But he's
changed in the last seven, eight years.
He just has. And I say that with so many
mutual friends universally saying that.
In fact, I was one of the last to come
around. I'm like, "No, he's all right."
Even after he left, quote unquote, Tesla
left, which they never did. They didn't
change. They didn't move a job. They
just changed the corporate headquarters.
He came back a few months later. You can
go online and you can see a press
conference I had when he moved his world
R&D headquarters back to California and
I praised Elon. And that wasn't that
long ago. That was after quote unquote
he left the state of California. But
he's different now. Something's changed.
And u and now of course that's been
exposed across the spectrum. It's not
just from a prism of left and right. But
I've long admired him. He created this
entire market and he's 100% right about
this big beautiful bill. He's 100% right
that we're doubling down on stupid and
we're investing in the past as the rest
of the world is leaping forward. China's
going to clean our clock as it relates
to electric vehicles. They're going to
clean our clock in terms of the future
and dominate it because of some of what
Donald Trump has just done and rolling
back progress that was made over the
last uh decade or so, particularly as it
relates to what just occurred with the
IRA and notably with the infrastructure
bill that the the president of the
United States previous president passed.
So I agree with him on a lot of things
but uh some character issues that I that
I question.
>> I use his name I guess because he's now
so influential in this country but he's
also like a figurehead of like a certain
you know of entrepreneurship and
innovation. So he's and now he owns X as
well. So the platform's so big under if
you are ever to become president what's
your attitude going to be towards
entrepreneurs like him and how is that
different to the democratic
>> celebrate I rever their
entrepreneurialism. We celebrate them.
We celebrate their contributions. Again,
we don't we don't I mean, I I just the
idea that our party is branded by
begrudging other people's success. It's
devastating to I think the to the
aspirations of what it means I so much
of what it means to be an American in
California is the dream. It's attached
to this notion of social mobility that
there's a limitlessness in terms of
being and doing anything. And so my job
as governor and my job in any position
would be to create the conditions where
people feel included, feel seen, where
they can live their lives back what I
said earlier out loud and we create the
conditions where their success becomes
inevitable or irresistible. And uh I
think a lot of what leadership is is
climate control, not in the sustainable
sense. And it's no longer command and
control. But what I concerned about now
is the command and control of crony
capitalism coming back into the United
States of America because of Donald
Trump. You got to kiss the ring. You
don't kiss the ring, it's going to be
punitive. You want an exemption on the
tariffs, just make a call. Or rather,
better yet, make a contribution. Maybe
you make a contribution indirectly by
buying some crypto. And that
contribution then gets the benefit.
Maybe you make a deal uh overseas on
weapons and we'll take care of the golf
course. Maybe we'll take care of the new
two towers uh for the family. That's
what's happened under Trump in just six
months to a degree never. It's
unimaginable in the United States to see
it at this scale in this this level. And
uh and that's to me not free enterprise.
Business takes me all over the world and
I travel about 50 weeks a year. And up
until recently, one of the challenges I
continued to face was staying connected
as soon as I landed somewhere new. The
reality is I don't have time to wait
around and sort out SIM cards while I'm
on the go. So a few months ago I tried
something called ALO for the first time
and they are now a sponsor of today's
episode. He is the world's first e SIM
store. It's entirely digital. No SIM
cards are needed at all and you can keep
the same phone number you have now. It
means that you can get reliable data in
over 200 destinations with instant
access to a digital e SIM card with a
click of a button. When you buy your
first ALO eSIM, you can get $3 off by
using code DOAC3.
For me, being able to land Switch on my
phone and get back to work is
gamechanging. And Airl makes this
possible. Install ALO today to get $3
off your first ESIM with code DOAC3 at
checkout. That's D OC3 when you download
the ALO app. I've just invested millions
into this and become a co-owner of the
company. It's a company called Ketone
IQ. And the story is quite interesting.
I started talking about ketosis on this
podcast and the fact that I'm very low
carb, very, very low sugar, and my body
produces ketones, which have made me
incredibly focused, have improved my
endurance, have improved my mood, and
have made me more capable at doing what
I do here. And because I was talking
about it on the podcast, a couple of
weeks later, these showed up on my desk
in my HQ in London, these little shots.
And oh my god, the impact this had on my
ability to articulate myself, on my
focus, on my workouts, on my mood, on
stopping me crashing throughout the day
was so profound that I reached out to
the founders of the company and now I'm
a co-owner of this business. I highly,
highly recommend you look into this. I
highly recommend you look at the science
behind the product. If you want to try
it for yourself, visit
ketone.com/stephven
for 30% off your subscription order. And
you'll also get a free gift with your
second shipment. That's
ketone.com/stephven.
And I'm so honored that once again, a
company I own can sponsor my podcast. Is
the world safer now under Trump than it
was under Biden?
>> There's nuance to that. I don't think
it's a binary safe. I mean, I think
>> in terms of war and the probability of a
World War II, are we
>> I think it's more unpredictable than
it's been. Um, I worry about
nuclear proliferation. I worry about AI.
>> Biden wasn't doing so well when I
watched that debate and he was
struggling over his words and couldn't
couldn't be coherent with sentences. I
did
>> I was his chief surrogate that night.
So,
>> chief surrogate.
>> Yeah. Meaning I was there representing
the campaign to make
>> Oh, so you were there
>> uh for Yeah.
>> I actually think I saw you afterwards
doing interviews. I uh was doing my best
to have uh and go home with a guy who
brought you to the dance and um you know
I um I was proud to support him. Uh but
that was a that was a that was a
difficult night.
>> Did you realize in that was that the
moment you realized that he wasn't
>> right when he walked out on stage
>> doing well.
>> I was in the back. I'll never forget
physically standing up as I was watching
and going and I turned to my staff. I
said something's off. Right when he
walked on stage felt it. It was the only
time I saw that was um at a fundraiser
here that he had after he had no sleep
and I just we all just literally assumed
it was just jet lag and he had flown
back and forth in over a week back and
forth to Europe twice and he had a late
night and um I thought boy he's just not
on like and that was in private not just
his public uh comments with President
Obama that night. There was a lot of
talk, rhetoric that there was an
internal desire to overthrow him around
that time because you could see on TV he
was struggling and in the polls and
Donald Trump was reveling in it. And
then I heard this narrative coming up
that, you know, Nancy Pelosi and the
Democratic party were having private
conversations and telling him to step
down and forcing him out.
>> All cards on the table, 100% truth. Is
there any truth in that?
>> Yeah. No, a lot of that was happening. I
mean, a lot of people were I mean, there
was there was a phone tree that lit up
that night. There was a text tree, phone
tree, email uh just blew up
>> saying
>> people are in panic. Total fullfledged
panic and and and there was a need and
desire to know that he was okay and that
this was momentary uh or discover there
was something else maybe had a cold,
maybe there's some other issue. And it
led to those kind of conversations that
many have been made public, many
private, led to meetings with Democratic
governors in the White House with the
president uh around a table,
>> including
>> including me. Mr. President, tell us,
you know, what's your path? How you
feeling? Uh some honest back and forth
with a few governors that challenged him
a little bit more than one would have
expected with sort of protocol within
the party. Um and um yeah, a real desire
obviously to turn the page and
ultimately that manifested with a
decision he made um and led to uh
obviously our nominee her his vice
president.
>> He was effectively effectively pushed
out of the party by pressure.
>> Yeah. I mean
>> because he wanted to continue. That was
clear. He said that.
>> Yeah. He believed he was the only one
that could beat Donald Trump.
>> Yeah.
>> Having beat him once, he was convinced
he could do it again. He believed that
his record of the lowest black
unemployment, Hispanic unemployment,
lowest unemployment for women, the best
economy in 60 years as it relates to
jobs and GDP growth, uh, inflation that
was cooling from 9.1 and was moving in
the right direction with the chips and
science act, with the infrastructure
bill, the IRA, 400 bipartisan bills. He
felt lowest uninsured rates. They felt
like things directionally were moving
despite the inflation scars and that he
can make that case. He felt that. He
really did feel that way. A lot of the
narrative was that you were going to
step in potentially at last minute and
that I know in your head you must have
been mulling and thinking about going
back and forward about different
possibilities and outcomes. Things were
moving so quickly and there was so such
little time. I saw your name mentioned
all the time associated with stepping in
to replace him.
>> No, I was but I was also the one that
was out there still campaigning for him
after everyone else had had turned his
back. I just
>> But you mustn't be in your head at night
thinking
>> I wasn't then. And I things could
change.
>> Uh you talked about what shaped me,
those moments. Um when I say no
daylight, when I say, you know, I got to
make up for disappointing this guy and
myself, when I'm in, I'm in. And I'll
tell you, the coin of the realm in
politics is loyalty. Period. Full stop.
Willie Brown taught me that. Um and Joe
Biden um um I was going to have his
back. So I literally, I'm telling you,
look me in the eye because I know it's
cynical. did not think along those
lines. after he dropped out those
minutes later and my cell phone blew up.
I confess that there were a number of
people uh that uh wondered uh and I
imagine uh you can you know there were
there were plenty of people sort of
circling go well maybe maybe the moment
I
>> once he dropped down
>> I to be candid um I'm going to get in
trouble for saying this because I
haven't said it public I was a little
angry I didn't get heads up
>> you didn't get a heads up that gave me
like a text two minutes cuz I I was
embarrassed I was sitting with a group
of people I was and I was like my phone
rang I was like wow I saw was I was my
first reaction honestly was like gez man
all this stuff I did for this guy and
not even a heads up and it and um first
mis call true story I I didn't even know
it was an unknown number I didn't even
look at it for about six hours and it
was
>> she already made the call to me
>> saying what
>> just a voicemail love to talk so
>> about what
>> well she was running so it's uh you know
and uh a few hours later I put out a
press release supporting her candidacy
>> what should the Democratic party have
done with the wisdom of hindsight Ight
in that moment instead of just putting
Camala straight in.
>> All geniuses in hindsight. I don't know
what you could have possibly done with
just such a short runway.
>> You had the vice president of the United
States. You had the apparatus that was
built within the party. You had the
legal ability for her because it was the
Biden Harris campaign to transfer a lot
of that. Yeah. You had little time. You
would have opened up to a circular
firing squad as it relates to the party.
In hindsight, it didn't work.
What could you have done with the
benefit of hindsight that might have
worked?
>> Yeah, I would have, could have, should
have. I don't live in that. I think but
but I live where we where we were
exploring a moment ago and that is in
reflection more broadly of where the
party is less the individuals and I
think that's our biggest mistake. We're
so consumed by the individual
>> identity politics.
>> Yeah. But well issues related identity
politics broadly but it's not just the
person. Okay.
>> It's who we represent. And there's a
word we didn't use earlier, but you used
it in relationship to Trump. Weakness
versus strength. And I'll tell you, to
me, at the core, the end of the day, to
me, it's that distinction that perhaps
says more things in more ways on more
days about where our two parties are.
Donald Trump exudes strangely strength.
I think he's weakness masquerading as
strength. Our party appears weak for
many, too many. And I remember Bill
Clinton after shellacking, we got
crushed in a midterm and he said, 'Given
the choice, Bill Clinton said, 'The
American people always support strong
and wrong versus weak and right.
There's something about that. I think
this notion of strength, I think it goes
to young boys. I think it goes to Trump
and Trumpism, what he sells, what he
represents to people. I think in that
distinction maybe is a pathway for our
party.
And my last question before I get to the
book, which is the question left by our
last guest, is um there's a there's a
high probability, which which you know
I'm aware of, that I'm sat with the
future president of the United States.
There's a probability, you know, even if
it's a 1% probability, it's an
extraordinary opportunity to ask
question.
>> Yeah, even if it's a 1%, but I I looked
at the the odds before I walked out, so
I know it's higher. um under you if I
took that Men in Black little pen thing
that erases memory and I erase my memory
of the Democratic Party and I erase the
memory of the Democratic Party for all
of my audience watching and you have a
clean slate
>> to redefine that party and we don't we
don't remember or we don't reflect on
the past and that party is coming up in
2028 against the Republican MAGAentric
party maybe led by JD Vance. What is
what is that proposition? I'm a young
man, but not just for young men, for
everybody. What is the proposition
you're putting forward? What does it
sound like?
I
>> And I don't want any of the political
stuff coming.
>> No, no, no. What does it sound like?
>> And and and you can appreciate I hope
that that I don't have the kind of
answer that's worthy of that question.
>> Mhm.
>> Because it's a spectacular question.
Yeah.
>> And it's fundamentally the question that
needs to be answered by whoever is
running for president of the United
States and it needs to be done. So
congruently, it can't be to your point
[__] It can't be a pole tested
focused group
>> bunch of words and pabum. What does your
heart say?
>> You have to feel it.
>> In so many respects what you just what
we just ended on. I think this notion of
the dream, I think this notion of of I
think there's something about why we're
together that is sort of that the
intersection of entrepreneurialism,
aspiration, inspiration, growth,
opportunity, inclusion
that is that that begins to answer and
flesh out or create an answer that
fleshes out. Um, and it's in that space
that I'm consumed. I'm consumed by
contribution and service. this notion of
service, communitarianism,
this notion that we're all better off,
we're all better off. I think public
service should be a requirement, um
national service. Uh but it's in that
space uh that ultimately I think um a a
an answer uh will emerge. And there's
lots of um it's funny because
politics more and more I've learned
about it is this battle between like
rationality and logic and then just
emotion and uh perception I guess.
>> Exactly. Right.
>> So you talked about some of the great
things the Democratic party have done.
But it's it's crazy how the headlines
will be dominated by some issue around
quote unquote woke ideology.
>> 100%.
>> And it almost becomes the case that
people care. They're more emotionally
compelled by this idea that their kids
in schools are being t taught something.
that is corrupting their mind versus how
the economy is doing or jobs.
>> I know. And it was it was it's and I
think we struggled to recognize that.
>> How do you recognize that
>> they were shapeshifting CRT, ESG, DAI,
anything with three letters. I mean, we
were on our heels. We were on the
receiving end of all this. We're
constantly on the defense. We got I love
what President Obama just said. He said,
"We got to get more aggressive. Get on
the offense. I've been saying this for
years."
>> What does that mean?
>> Meaning, we've got to shape the
narrative. Illusion rules. Facts don't
matter. You got these propaganda
networks weaponizing grievance 24/7 and
we're constantly responding uh to these
these these these culture wars. And let
me be specific on that. I think you know
the the governor of Utah said it best.
Never has so much attention been focused
on so few as it relates to the issue of
trans athletes. He's 100% right. But
there's also truism and it's part of,
you know, part of being in business.
You're nothing but a mirror of your
consistent thoughts. Whatever you focus
on, you're going to find more of. And so
if 247 that's all that's coming from
you, California this like California
crackup, everyone's leaving worst place
to do everything else. You start to
believe it. You start starts to shape
your conversation. Then you start
finding proof points. Oh, there's an
enomous encampment. Oh, I just read
about this crime down at the Walmart and
it's just it everyone's leaving because
what because Elon left everyone. So I I
think narrative matters to your point.
Trump understands that better than
anybody. Mhm.
>> He repeats things over and in the you
know the vernacular of my buddy Marshon
Lynch and over and over and over and
over and over and over over again. So I
think flooding the zone in that respect
you are a master at it. I mean dealing
with Jesus seriously I mean of all
people should hire you my friend uh that
understand data and analytics
communication
how to target um broader message values
brand strength um and how to sell. You
got to sell. I mean, we sitting there
talking about the chips and science act.
No one knows what the hell you're even
talking about. We didn't sell what we
were delivering.
>> I think we have to brand it.
>> Yeah. And we and it's also look part of
the answer to the question you asked
earlier. It's also and you know Ezra
Klein's talking about but abundance
mindset. We've had this scarcity
mindset, this sort of zero sum mindset.
And as an entrepreneur, you don't have a
scarcity mindset. And I think as part of
the bar brand building of our party,
it's not just in terms of housing and
issues related to what Ezra speaks in
terms of abundance mindset, but it's
that growth abundance mindset. And I
think that's part of when I talk about
the dream. I'm also saying this, by the
way, from the prison that no other
governor can lay claim. You have the
American dream and you have the
California dream. There's no other state
that's attached to a dream. And I think
there's something evocative in that
because that that inspires a journey
that we can be on, a journey that we can
go on together. And so I'm I'm captured
by the vernacular of the 60s and Bobby
Kennedy was my political hero. Sar
Shrivever and Kennedy, everything about
that, solving for ignorance and poverty
and disease and and this notion of going
on a journey together. That was what the
moon was all about. And and we can see
ourselves on that journey. right now,
you know, is a blue versus the red team.
Uh this is a war that within in this
country and I think whoever runs in the
next four years or three years, um it's
about stitching this back together and
and going on a journey together. Uh
because as I say all the time, divorce
is not an option.
>> There's just two other things that
sprung to mind as you're talking is I've
always wondered in California,
specifically in LA, I told you I moved
here. I just moved into my place
yesterday, in fact. Um, I was in a CVS,
I think it was, and I was trying to get
some toothpaste.
>> Horrible, right?
>> Yeah. I couldn't believe it. I said to
the team, this was like six months ago,
I was like, I went to a CVS to get some
toothpaste,
>> and I got to the toothpaste and it's in
a cage.
>> And I said to the lady there, I was
like, why is the toothpaste in a cage?
And she she goes, "Look." And she points
down the aisle and there was a gentleman
um a homeless gentleman who was stuffing
things in his sock.
>> Yeah.
>> And I thought, "Fucking hell." Like,
>> yeah,
>> if I look over there, there's these
mansions in the hills. And if I'm in the
CVS, the toothpaste is in a cage because
the homeless people are stuffing things
into their socks.
>> Yeah.
>> Is that fixable?
>> Yes.
>> And what caused it?
>> Well, and then now you're dealing with
larger systemic issues that that go back
decades and decades and the has have
nots and and that goes to
>> drug addiction.
>> Yeah. and the broad I mean the specific
issues around homelessness and that gets
to deeper issues about mental health
behavioral health issues affordability
housing crisis but look
>> is it fixable
>> yes by definition
>> why doesn't no one fix it
>> it's being fixed and progress is
literally being made we're seeing
significant reductions backto-back years
in crime we're seeing significant
reductions in organized retail theft
seeing significant reductions including
just here in LA and they announced 17
and a half% decline over two years in
the number of people out in the streets
and sidewalks and unsheltered homeless
that was literally announced yesterday
by the mayor. So, there is progress in
all these cases. So, absolutely,
>> you're getting more radical on this
point as well because I I saw the
announcement you made and I watched very
closely a couple years ago when you
announced that you're going to have to
get these encampments off the street.
>> I'm done with it. It's exhausting. Clean
them up. It's the job of a mayor. My job
as mayor, former mayor of San Francisco.
Uh do your job. Clean them up. Get
people off the street. There's nothing
there. Stepping over people on the
streets and sidewalks is not compassion.
And so we have flooded the zones in
terms of support and resources. Now it's
about performance.
>> And I I have the great honor of working
with Prince William in the UK on a in a
home homelessness initiative. So I know
the complexities of it. And some people
think of it as just a housing issue. But
having spent time with people at risk of
homelessness, I know it's a confidence
issue. It's a mental health issue. It's
a jobs issue. It's a pathways into
employment issue. It's a very very
complicated issue. So that's actually
blown my mind. home would have in terms
of
>> I mean I say it all the time shelters
solve sleep housing and supportive
services solve homelessness. You've got
to deal with the underlying reasons
people are out on the streets and
sidewalks in the first place. And so
it's about this comprehensive integr
integration of care, whole person care
as we describe it. We've just gone
through the most significant mental
health reforms in US history. We have
flooded the zone with more support.
26,000 new units of behavioral health
housing we are producing and procuring
in the state of California in real time
with zoning reforms so we can site them
workforce development reforms and we're
reorganizing the integration around
mental health and the silos and people
with drug and alcohol addictions and the
integration uh and this is the source to
me of so much of my real passion in
terms of my day job and and you're going
to see real progress in the state
>> well I did do some research beforehand
and I can see that there's some really
significant actions taken and they are
nuanced and complex in their solution.
So that's very very encouraging and it's
encouraging to meet someone who
understands the complexities of this
problem because actually the narrative
that will win out in an election cycle
is going to be emotional. It's going to
be simple
>> and so I think everybody should look out
for emotional and simple answers and
exclude them whenever you hear them. Um,
last question before I ask you this one
is, um, all the headlines at the moment
are about Jeffrey Epstein.
>> And, uh, the way that that's been
handled really is the thing that I find
so fascinating because on the way into
the presidential office and into those
some those big roles, there were certain
promises made about the Epstein files
and it would be released and if you vote
for me, then I will release these files.
And now there's nothing to see.
>> Yeah.
>> What what what happened there?
>> Well, they lied. They they lied to you
then or they lying to you now. Period.
Someone lied about this. They dangled
this in order to get votes and they lied
to people. They use people. And um and
someone needs to be held to account. And
and look, I you know, I can be cynical
about it. I can be very political about
it and say it's interesting when Elon,
we brought up Elon, when Elon Musk
tweets something out saying Trump's on
the list and a few days later there is
no list. You can be cynical about that.
It leads to some open-ended questions.
>> What would you have done if you were
Trump in that situation? So, say that
you you'd been elected and the public
are demanding to see this list. What
would you have done?
>> Well, one thing is obvious. I I know Pam
Bondi well, uh, the attorney general.
Um, we known each other over the years.
She doesn't move without Trump.
If she's fired, she's the fall person
because there's no question she was
directed by Trump to say what she said.
She would not have
period, full stop, done something
independent of the president on the
Epstein files.
>> So Trump is the person that's
>> So one has to acknowledge that. So then
it begs additional questions. Why was
she told not to release the files unless
a there's no files and they made it up
the entire damn time just like they made
up Obama's birth certificate just like
they make up most things most days. my
humble position. I think that's very
plausible. It could be very simple. It
could be as simple as that.
>> They started the conspiracy up. They
started. They're covering their ass and
they're just like, "Shit, we got caught.
We We use this. We We sort of squeeze
this out. We got everything we needed.
We're in power." Or it's more insidious
than that. And look, the one thing is
just not even there. There's It's just
simple truth. Epste and Trump were
close. They were wasn't just a few
photographs. They were close. That's a
fact. Sorry, Donald. Just a fact. So,
look, I get why this outrages folks. I
think it's interesting. It's outraged
some of the core base. Um I I I enjoy
the hell out of it. I'm just I spoke
that was my private voice out loud as a
Democrat. And um yeah, and I hope our
party jins this up much more.
>> If you get into office, people are going
to say release the list. I mean, if
there's
commit to release your list or what
unless there's some national security
secret here or something and I know that
leads to speculation about MSAD and
other speculation about was he on a
foreign intelligence list and is there
real implications to our national
security? Why did he make all his money?
I mean, I I've got enough problems with
homelessness and housing in California
worry about Jeffrey Epstein. But hey,
they created this mess. Now they got to
clean it up. Governor,
we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest, not knowing
who they're leaving it for.
>> Good.
>> And the question left for you
>> is what is it?
>> Have you received a sign from beyond
>> a That's good. In the spirit of Epstein
and sort of conspiracies, I immediately
go to
>> uh yeah, look um I don't know about
that, but I there's a spiritual aspect
to me. meaning I I I'm a person of
faith. I grew up in the church, went to
a Jesuit university. I quote the Bible
often, many parts, one body. So, I feel
that connection
to something bigger than myself. If for
no other reason than I'm desperate for
it,
>> the person who wrote the question, I'll
tell you, to give you a little bit of a
clue, they're referring to a a late
loved one that passed away.
>> More specific.
>> Yes.
>> Fascinating. I've never You feel You
feel people's presence when you hear a
song. You feel people's presence when
you you know during
season of the year and you know I I I
will say all right I will say you've got
me um and uh this was uncanny. My father
passed away in his house in s in San
Francisco.
I came after in this case and there was
no assisted suicide but I came right
after um and visited him on right
outside the window was a paragrine
falcon. Can't make this up. My father
was passionate about paragine falconers.
I've never seen a parag I've grew up in
San Francisco in my life was a paragine
falcon right on the balcony right after
his death. My sister and I looked at
each other. So, you can't think that was
the sign.
True story.
There's my answer.
>> Thank you. Thank you so much. I am I'm
really encouraged by the example you're
setting for so many reasons. Um, and I
the reason one of the biggest reasons
that I'm super encouraged by the example
you're setting is because you're doing
what I've wished for so long so many
people in your position, your political
position would do, which is to speak to
the other side, but also to get out
there and to have conversations like
this in this new medium of podcasting
that is unfiltered, uncensored, and is
long form. And I just I always longed to
see that from the Democratic Party, but
they've hidden behind PR and sanitized
messaging for so long. And you're
bucking the trend. I was so happy when
you sat down with Charlie Kirk because
those are the conversations I want to
see. And actually, you being in the same
room made me both realize that there's a
lot you have in common and also allowed
me to compare the fundamental
differences um in person, but also um
it's so wonderful to get to know you as
a man and where you come from. I
appreciate
>> because I because now I now I understand
I understand your motivations. I
understand the decisions that I think
you'd make, you know, going forward as
president and um it feels like a great
honor for you to have given me this
time, but also as I said for your team
not to tell me you can't talk about
this, you can't talk about that and just
to let me talk about whatever I wanted
to talk about. So um thank you so much
and um thank you for having me in your
your home state now of of California. I
guess I'm a kind of a half semi-resident
or something and um yeah, I'm going to
be watching with uh with much um
curiosity to see how it plays out and
you you present a new vision for
America. I highly recommend everybody
goes and checks out your podcast as
well. I'm going to link it on the screen
and below. This is Gavin Newsome where
you do exactly that. You sit with people
and have these conversations that are so
unfortunately rare um with people you
often disagree with. It's a fantastic
show and it always has me absolutely
hooked. and um your book here as well
I'm going to recommend because it really
shaped how I think about your
philosophy. Um it's called Citizenville
um how to take the town square digital
and reinvent government which talks a
lot about social media and the role it
plays. Thank you so much Gavin. It's
been an honor.
>> My honor really grateful.
>> Thank you so much for the time.
Appreciate it.
>> This has always blown my mind a little
bit. 53% of you that listen to this show
regularly haven't yet subscribed to the
show. So, could I ask you for a favor?
If you like the show and you like what
we do here and you want to support us,
the free simple way that you can do just
that is by hitting the subscribe button.
And my commitment to you is if you do
that, then I'll do everything in my
power, me and my team, to make sure that
this show is better for you every single
week. We'll listen to your feedback.
We'll find the guests that you want me
to speak to, and we'll continue to do
what we do. Thank you so much.
[Music]
Heat. Heat. N.